All right.
Good morning, everyone.
One of you just joined me as we prayed just before I kick off.
So, Lord Jesus, thank you that we can come here today.
Lord, thank you that we can come and learn more about you and more about your word together.
Lord, we just pray that Lord, I thank you that you have something that you want to impart to each one of us.
Even if we don't know why we came here this morning, Lord, that you didn't bring us here by accident.
So the weather is that you want us to take from this morning.
I pray that you would just impart that into our hearts or anything that is not from you or not for us.
Just pray that would be just fall away and be lost in Jesus name.
Amen.
All right.
Well, I got open with a short story this morning just for a few minutes.
And it's a story of something that happened to me
Oh, gosh, 12 years ago.
Yes, so 2014, 12 years ago.
And so I just finished medical school and got a fresh out and I went off to what's called a medical elective, which is something you do after you graduated.
You get to spend a couple of months working somewhere else and some of my friends went to Australia or all lovely places and I went to work at Aclinic in Haiti.
And this was three years after the 2010 earthquakes had happened.
And it was, I think, something like 50% of the buildings there was still flat.
It was quite a humbling and heartbreaking experience.
But before I even got there, I never actually treated a patient as a real doctor before.
I hadn't actually done anything.
And I was half asleep on my plane on the way over from America, and then kind of connecting flight down to Haiti.
And there was a voice that came over the Tanoy.
They said, is there a doctor on the plane?
And I know some people, some people I went to med school with, they would have loved this.
They would have lived for this.
This would have been their moment.
They would have cracked their fingers and cracked on.
And I was gripped by an icy cold fear and terror unlike anything that I can quite explain before or since.
And we were in the middle of the Atlantic Ocean.
And I was there, and I was sitting there, and I was going to follow up around.
I was like, oh my gosh, what's going to happen?
What are they going to ask me to do?
Like, am I going to get it wrong?
Are they going to ask me?
Are we going to have to land the plane?
What if it's the pilot?
What if they ask me to land the plane?
No, that's not very likely.
But I was like, just all these things were going round and round and round in my head.
And they said it again.
Is there a doctor on the plane?
So I was like, surely someone else will go.
And nobody moved.
And I was like, cool.
OK, this one must be for me.
So I stood up very kind of nervously and I walked over to the kind of the air sheared and I said, oh, you know, I'm a doctor.
And I kid you not, she looked at me and she laughed at me.
Like, I'm not joking and she told me to sit down.
And I'm assuming, the only reason I can assume it, I assume this happened,
is that it was an American airline, medicine's a postgraduate thing I think in America and so you have to be kind of 28, 29 and I was 23 and I looked about 17 and I didn't have a bid and so I totally, I do understand and the only way I managed to actually convince her was I had kind of a load of medical stuff in my hand luggage and I was like look either I brought this on the off chance that this happened so that I could kind of pose as a doctor or this is really true.
And she let me through and actually what I'd been called to see was kind of
was kind of a bit something or nothing, you know, they've got all this kit, but I've no idea what to do with any of it.
But thankfully, there's somebody there, they're kind of a little bit in and out of consciousness and actually, I don't know, maybe they've taken a bit too much of something to calm down before the flight.
It was all fine, kind of sat with them for about 20 minutes, and then they woke up and I went and sat back down.
But what I remember from that experience was the fear.
The fear, the feeling, what if I get it wrong?
What if I'm not good enough?
What if I don't know enough?
What if I don't have enough experience?
Somebody else must be better.
There must be someone else who can do this.
And why am I telling you this story?
Well, we're looking at the moment at this theme that kind of started on kind of the worship and testimony Sunday, first Sunday of January.
And it's moved through Vision Sunday and into kind of Bev speaking last week.
And it's all around this idea of stepping into the story.
Because Nicky spoke on Vision Sunday about how the year just gone has been an amazing year, but it's been a hard year for lots of us as well.
But it feels like as a church, we're stepping into a new era.
And part of stepping into that new era is this thing of stepping into the story.
We want to get involved.
We want to be ready.
We don't want to miss out on what God is doing.
But if we want to step in, we're probably going to have to deal with all of those feelings that I was feeling
on that plane over the Atlantic.
That, I can't do it.
I couldn't do it.
I'm too weak.
I'm inadequate.
I'm not enough.
Thinking about what could happen.
What's the worst that could go wrong?
I'll get it wrong.
I'll mess it up.
I'll look stupid.
There must be someone better or maybe even just everyone will laugh at me.
Because our own fear keeps us sidelined.
It disqualifies us from stepping in.
We say it could never be me because of this or because of that.
But it isn't about feeling ready.
It's about hearing God and trusting God.
And maybe sometimes I'm worried that I'll get it wrong and God will look bad, but far more of the time I'm worried that I'll get it wrong and I'll look bad.
And so I'm going to start with my overall point here.
So if you want to have a nap for the next 20 minutes, that's fine.
But make sure you remember this before you do.
If you want to step into the story,
We're gonna have to get used to the fact that we might have to risk looking silly, getting it wrong, messing up, looking weak, not starting from a place of strength and not having it all together.
And thankfully, that's okay.
Two Corinthians 12, 19 says, but he said to me, my grace is sufficient for you, for my power is made perfect in weakness.
Therefore, I will boast all the more gladly about my weaknesses
so that Christ's power may rest on me.
I'll put it another way.
What if the biggest barrier to us stepping into the story isn't the fact that I'm weak?
It's the fact that I don't trust that God will use my weakness for his glory.
So I put it to each one of us here in the silence of our own hearts.
Do we really trust that God can use our weaknesses?
not those kind of weaknesses that we might say in an interview that are really strengths, like, oh my gosh, I'm too perfect.
I'm just too obsessed with time management, not one of those, but our genuine weaknesses.
Do we really trust that God can use our weaknesses for his glory?
Because he absolutely can, and he absolutely will if we are brave enough to let him.
And I could, could probably just leave it there.
But Kate and Anita told me they got lots of stuff planned for kids and planned for youth.
So I'm going to press on at least for a few minutes because I'd hate to rob them of the amazing stuff that's happening.
And there is, there is some amazing stuff that's happening in kids and in youth.
And Claire mentioned on Friday night, 350 youth and young people here worshiping.
If you want to be inspired by what God is doing, have a chat with Kate.
Have a chat with Anita.
They are doing amazing work.
And God is doing amazing stuff in our kids and our youth.
So if you want to be inspired,
have a chat with them after the service.
They would love to tell you a bit more about what is going on.
So I was reflecting on this idea of stepping into the story.
And someone, someone very wise asked me a question.
I was prepping this.
They said, whose story is it that we're stepping into?
Well, ultimately, it's Jesus's story.
It's the kingdom story that is being written across the whole world throughout time.
But like all good stories, there are branches.
There's a story that God is writing in each one of us individually.
The fact that we get to partner with Jesus in building this big story.
There's a story here at Scarlet Church that's being written.
And we're involved by virtue of sitting in the seats or being here.
We're involved for however long or however short that is.
And then there's this world kind of kingdom story that is being written by God through millions of churches and through billions of Christians.
Even people who don't know him, God is writing
a story in each of our lives.
And I say this, because the story, when we think of stepping into the story, the story is about what is happening here.
But I want to be clear, it's not just what about what is happening here.
It's not just about the amazing stuff that we get to do, or kids' volunteers, or even people who uproot their lives and start an AIDS hospital in Uganda.
And all of that stuff is good, and it might be part of your story.
But it's not just about
that because God writes a story in each of us individually and we have the choice to say yes I'm up for it or we have the choice to push against it and run away and I'm sure we have all done that at times I have definitely done that at times and God is gracious and God always keeps giving us more chances keeps giving me more chances when I say no or when I disqualify myself but I am making it harder but I want to look at
a story this morning that demonstrates this and boil down a bit deeper.
So we're going to look at a story in the book of judges.
And I like judges because it gives me hope because I can really feel that like in my own life, the book of judges is a series of cycles.
It's a story of Israel inhabiting the promised land.
God has bought them through the wilderness, but they aren't living the way that he's told them to.
And so it's all gone a bit to part, to be honest.
And they're stuck in this cycle.
of sin, turning away from God.
Everything goes wrong.
They're oppressed by their sins and by their neighbours.
They cry out to God for forgiveness and for help.
And God sends a rescuer, a leader that's called a judge, and they save them from whatever's going on and the tribes and whatever and they repent, and then everything's okay.
And then the cycle repeats.
I don't know if
If any of you can feel any of that cycle in your own life, but I can definitely feel that cycle in mind of crying out to God, finding God in something, figuring out a new way of getting it wrong, and then having to come back to God all over again.
And the judges, the judges that Jesus uses, they aren't perfect by any stretch, and some of them are downright awful.
But all of them are used by God despite their flaws.
And we're gonna look this morning at a particular judge, a man called Gideon.
So we're here for the story.
Israelites have been brought into the Promised Land.
Moses has led them out of Egypt through the wilderness.
He's dead.
Joshua settled in the Promised Land with them at the beginning of Judges.
He's dead too.
And there's a group of pretty dreadful people who are living in the land called Canaanites, which is a bit of a casual term for everybody who's there in the land.
And God has said to them, get rid of these people.
This is your land.
You don't want them here because you're going to become
like them.
And they were a pretty awful bunch and there were sacrifices and idol worship and all kind of horrific things that were happening.
So God said, get rid of them or you'll become like them.
But they haven't done it.
They started doing it and then somewhere along the way they kind of run out of steam and it gets hard to get rid of them.
And so they decide rather than actually get rid of them, they're going to keep them around and they're going to put them to work instead.
And in so doing, they end up becoming just like them.
It's pretty awful.
people.
They forget God, they worship false idols, and they start with pagan practices.
And ultimately, there's nothing that separates them as the people of God from the people around them.
They lose their identity as the people of God.
And I was reading through this.
I'm thinking, how?
How does that happen?
How do you go through a journey where you're led
through the wilderness by a pillar of fire and a cloud of smoke.
How do you see such powerful manifestations of God with bread and manna and then still end up looking like everyone else around you?
And then I think about how much I look just like the culture around me.
Rather than looking like Jesus, as I'm called to do, despite everything he's done for me and everything that I've seen him do in my life, it's so easy to just look like everyone else.
And don't get me wrong, Jesus calls us in John 17 that we're called to be in the world.
And I love, I love that there is so many bits of our culture here in Skylark, here in the UK, here in 2026, there's so many things that I love.
So I'm not suggesting that we go out and start driving our neighbours from our homes or shutting ourselves off from the world with our fingers in our ears because it doesn't all look like us.
But we're called to be in the world, not of the world.
And all too often, my highest priorities look the same as the highest priorities of the world.
rather than the priorities of heaven.
Safety, comfort, financial security, power, success.
Maybe some of the darker ones, greed, selfishness, a desire to just kind of warm myself in with my own little comforts and get on with my own little life.
Because it's too easy for my priorities to look just like everyone else.
So when I ask how could it happen to the people of God, I know because it happens to me.
It might be a different culture, but it's the same heart that we struggle with.
And the book of Judges sums up this whole kind of state of affairs really well.
They say these words, and they're repeated later throughout the chapter in the book.
It says, in those days, Israel had no king.
All the people did whatever seemed right in their own eyes.
And I think that's probably as relevant today as it was then.
And so that's the backdrop.
In Israel, they have a few of these cycles.
And the first few judges that come in, they were pretty good.
To be honest, they were pretty great.
But they're only human, and eventually they die.
And what happens is Israel goes right back to its old way.
So, the judge comes in, everything's okay, the judge goes away, people suddenly forget everything that's happened, and the cycle repeats.
And there is something in that, as I was reflecting on it, there is something in that, at how much the faith of the nation of Israel relied on its human leaders who were there.
at the time.
Because in 2026, we have access to so much.
There are online services.
There are big churches.
There are big worship leaders.
There are big name pastors.
And there is a sense of this celebrity Christian culture because people are so accessible.
Rightly or wrongly, people are so accessible.
And there's so many people who are doing amazing things.
Don't get me wrong.
These amazing leaders that you see are doing amazing things.
And we have amazing leaders here at home.
Pete Nikki and the others who lead us, it is such a blessing to us as a church and as a network and none of that is bad, please hear me right.
But it does feel like we need to ask the question, who do we follow primarily for each of us individually?
Because the risk of having amazing people that we can see is that we can start following them rather than following Jesus.
And that doesn't mean that they're doing anything wrong.
That doesn't mean that they're not following Jesus with us.
It's very easy rather than have a relationship with Jesus ourselves to have a relationship with Jesus by proxy through somebody else that we see who seems to be getting it right.
And we don't want to be people.
I don't want to be a person whose faith relies on anybody else apart from Jesus.
And so I think that's how the nations of Israel at this time, they find their judge and the judge goes and they just go back to the railways.
Let's not be a church like that.
Let's make sure that our relationships with Jesus are our relationships with Jesus, not relationships by proxy.
Anyway, Gideon, here we are.
So we're going to start a judges six, and the whole story runs judges six to eight, and we aren't going to read the whole thing, but I'm going to skip through a couple of points which I'll put on the screen.
And yeah, so versus what, sorry, where are we?
Yes, sorry, judges six.
Verse one to six, on the screen, amplified Bible.
Then the Israelites did evil in the sight of the Lord, and the Lord gave them into the hand of Midian for seven years.
The powerful hand of Midian prevailed against Israel.
Because of Midian, the sons of Israel made for themselves the dens which were in the mountains and the caves and the strongholds.
For it was whenever Israel had sown their seat that the Midianites would come up with the Amalekites and the people of the east and go up against them.
So they would camp against them and destroy the crops of the land as far as Gaza and leave no sustenance in Israel, as well as no sheep, ox, or donkey.
for they would come up with their livestock and their tenets, and they would come into as numerous land as locusts, but they and their camels were innumerable.
So they came into the land to devastate it.
And Israel was greatly impoverished because of the Midianites, and the Israelites cried out to the Lord for help.
Thank you, Martin, for following me along there.
So here's the beginning of the cycle.
Israel does evil.
God allows them to be overtaken.
and these other groups by the Midianites, these other groups that travel through the land.
And this is a repeated cycle and we're told they are so numerous that they are like locusts and Israel is so impoverished and fearful every harvest because they see what they're growing being stolen away from them.
And we heard Pete talk on Vision Sunday about all the amazing stuff that's been happening here as a church in the last year.
And so as a church, I don't feel like we are seeing our harvest being stolen.
But as we've already acknowledged, last year was a hard year for a lot of people.
And I think on an individual level, it can definitely feel a bit like this.
That our joys seem to be stolen by the things in life that come against us.
And the desire to hide in the caves and the mountains and just get by and ignore the dangers is a very real one.
To batten down the hatches and just get through what's coming.
Because they're hiding in their own land.
And why?
Because when God said to remove the things that weren't good for them, they left the job half dumb.
If God says I need to remove something out of my life, sin or temptation or a problem, if I half do the job inevitably, it's gonna come back and bite me.
Sorry, don't give me a glass of water, sorry.
Thank you very much, my glamorous assistant.
Sorry about that.
So that's where Israel is.
The whole people are terrified.
Nobody wants to stick their head up above the parapet.
And we zoom into this lens.
This one man called Gideon.
And we pick up his story at verse 11.
Now, the angel of the Lord came and sat under the terra-binth tree at Orphra, which belonged to Joash the Abbe-Zurite.
And his son Gideon was beating wheat in the winepress instead of the thrashing floor.
to hide it and save it from the Midianites.
And the angel of the Lord appeared to him and said, the Lord is with you, O brave man.
So Gideon is beating wheat in a wine press.
Probably most of us aren't particularly familiar with this process, but beating wheat or threshing needs to be done outdoors and needs to be done on high and exposed ground, that picture on the left view.
In order to blow the lighter chaff away, the wind kind of blows it away and keeps the grain.
And wine presses, by comparison on the other side, are sunk into the rock.
They're protected from the elements.
There is no wind.
They are there to try and protect everything from the elements, which means that Gideon is basically going to be picking out individual bits of grain because he is so afraid of being seen.
He is in survival mode.
He is desperate to not make himself a target.
But even in his hiding, the angel of the Lord finds him, which brings me to this first Gideon point that God calls us even when we are hiding.
Gideon is out of sight.
He's doing his own thing, and he's desperately, desperately trying not to be noticed.
He doesn't want to make himself a target, and he just wants to get by.
He's not looking, he's not looking to step in, particularly because that will make him a target and get him killed.
He's accepted the culture of fear that's around him,
and the fact that things are dreadful.
It doesn't feel like there's anything that you can do apart from hide.
But Gideon goes to find him where he's at.
He's not put off by the fact that Gideon is hiding.
He doesn't wait for Gideon to feel ready to come to him.
And there's an encouragement and a challenge here, I think, that even if we're in a place where we feel like we can't step in, we can't risk making a target ourselves and we just want to hide.
That doesn't mean that God isn't going to ask us to do something.
But it also means that no matter how much we feel like we need to hide away, God can always use us because God calls us even when we are hiding.
And God calls us even when we're afraid.
Gideon's pretty scared here.
To be hiding in this wine press, he is terrified.
But what does the angel of the Lord say when he comes to see him?
He doesn't say, strap on your big boy pants Gideon, stop acting like such a coward, get over yourself.
He says, the Lord is with you, oh brave man.
Just to be clear, these are not the actions of a brave man, not by a long shot.
But within the heart of a coward, God sees how he can use Gideon and calls that thing out in him.
He doesn't seem brave, but in his human weaknesses, God names within him the things that he can use for his glory.
Because when God speaks things, they become true.
Because I can say, I can stand up and say something, it may or may not be true.
The sky is blue, hopefully we can agree is true, maybe not.
But if I say the sky is green, that's a lie.
I can speak truth, but what the truth is isn't dependent on what I say, but what is.
But when God speaks, when he says things, what he says becomes true by the fact that he is the definer of truth.
God says, let there be light, and there was light because he said it.
Jesus said, your sins are forgiven.
Go and get up and walk.
And because he said it, a man was paralyzed no longer, and he walked away, and his life was changed forever.
The angel of the Lord says to Gideon, brave man,
Before he has done anything, even remotely brave.
So his bravery comes not from his own strength, but because God has said so.
And you might be feeling like this today.
You might be feeling like you're hiding, like you're scared.
God can't use me because I'm afraid.
I don't know enough.
I'm not brave enough.
I'm not experienced enough.
I'm not ready.
But when God puts something on your heart,
something that he wants you to do, might be a big thing, might be a small thing, might be a tiny thing.
But when that Holy Spirit nudge comes that says, you are the person for this task, none of that matters because God has named that within you.
And there's this really well-known quote, and I'm sure many of you will have heard it, and I couldn't actually find who said it originally, but it goes like this.
God doesn't call the qualified, he qualifies the called.
God doesn't call the qualified, he qualifies the called, because God calls us.
even when we are afraid.
So he's hiding, he's afraid, but that still doesn't disqualify him in God's eyes.
And so we read on from verse 14.
But Gideon said to him, please, my Lord, if the Lord is with us, then why has all this happened to us?
Where are all his wondrous works, which our fathers told us about, when they said, do not, did not the Lord bring us up from Egypt, but now the Lord has abandoned us,
and put us into the hands of Midian.
The Lord turned to him and said, go in this strength of yours and save Israel from the hand of Midian.
Have I not sent you?
But Gideon said to him, please Lord, how am I to rescue Israel?
Behold, my family is the least significant imminator, and I am the youngest and smallest in my father's house.
Gideon is doubting now.
He's got a long old list of doubts, but thankfully,
God can still call us even when we are doubting.
Because first of all, he doubts God.
You know, God, where all these wondrous works that our fathers told us about.
In essence, he's saying, we heard how good it used to be.
But God, if you're with us, why isn't it like that now?
Why are the glories that we used to hear about?
Why aren't we seeing those at the moment?
Why isn't it like it used to be?
And I wonder, do we ever long for a time when things felt a bit easier?
Well, maybe it was all going better.
Or it just felt like God's plan was a bit clearer and a bit more active.
God, why don't we see what we saw last year or 10 years ago?
But as Bev reminded us so beautifully last week, we can't live on yesterday's manner.
And what God wanted to do yesterday isn't necessarily what God wants to do in us today.
And then Gideon, he doubts himself.
I'm the smallest.
I'm the least significant.
As the youngest son, he would have been
young.
He would have had the least power, the least influence, and the smallest family would have had the smallest army and the least number of fighting men.
But we can draw hope in how God responds to Gideon.
Go in this strength of yours and save Israel from the hand of Midian.
Have I not sent you?
And I love this.
And I love it, because this is exactly the opposite of how this scene would go if it was a Hollywood movie.
Because if it was a Hollywood movie, here, we would have a training montage.
So it would be, think, Rocky IV, or the Karate Kid, or Hercules, or Mulan.
This is where the training montage would go.
Because you'd have Gideon bench pressing a sheep in his wine press, or running through the desert with rocks on his back or something.
I don't know.
But there'd be this period of time.
Who knows what they did in that time to work out?
I'm not sure.
But there would be this period of time where we would see Gideon's called and then he becomes who it is that he's called to be.
And because that takes a long time, there would be a montage.
So as the audience, we wouldn't have to sit through, you know, watching him do 100,000 press ups or whatever to get to the point where he was strong enough, clever enough, brave enough to save Israel.
But that's not what we see.
God says, go in the strength that you have, have I not sent you.
And I love that.
I love that.
because you're already brave enough.
You're already strong enough.
Not because you're brave, he's hiding, he's hiding in a wine press.
It's not because he's strong or powerful, because we know he is the smallest, from the smallest family and the youngest son.
But none of that matters, because God's power is made perfect here in Gideon's weaknesses, because God calls us even when we are weak.
And if you're sitting here today,
and you're doubting your ability to step into the story.
Maybe you don't think you know enough.
You aren't wise enough.
You haven't read your Bible enough.
If God is sending you, then none of that matters.
And unfortunately, we can't use it as an excuse to put off until tomorrow what God would have us do today.
And I'm not saying, let's do everything that we're bad at straight away.
If you wanna play guitar in worship,
But you can't play the guitar.
Odds are you're probably not gonna be the right person to come and play the guitar next Sunday.
Doesn't mean you never will be, but it is probably going to take some time.
But it's easy to see someone who's hurting this morning.
And when that Holy Spirit nudge comes to think, I can help them.
I can pray with them today.
I don't pray well.
I don't have the right words.
Or to sit next to somebody new this morning and think, I'm not much for people person.
someone else can make them feel welcome.
When we feel that nudge from Holy Spirit to go and do, it's not about our doubts for today or how great we can be tomorrow.
It's not about getting to the point where we can do it all in our own strength.
It's allowing him to use what we have in the way that he wants.
God calls us even when we are doubting, even when we are weak.
And then I'm conscious of time, so I'm just going to press on.
So we come to this next bit, where Gideon's really wavering.
He's stepped in, and he's done a few things, and those things have gone really well, but he's really starting to wave now, because the stakes have risen.
People are looking like, it's not become academic, it's not theoretical anymore.
He's broken down some idols from the hometown that he lives in.
And there are real consequences to this story now, because people are coming to kill him.
and he panics and he says, God, I don't know if I'm the right person for this.
And we'll just pick it up briefly from verse 36.
God, Gideon said to God, if you're going to rescue Israel through me as you have spoken, behold, I will put a fleece of wool on the threshing floor.
If there is dew only on the fleece and it is dry on the ground, then I will know that you will rescue Israel from me as you have said.
And it was so.
And he gets up and he rings a whole bowl of water out of the fleece.
And then Gideon said to God, don't let your anger burn against me.
so that I may speak once more.
Please let me make another test with the fleece.
Now only let the fleece be dry and the dew be on the ground.
And God did so that night for it was dry on the fleece and there was dew on the ground all around it.
And this story gives me hope because things have started to get real for Gideon.
I think we all know that feeling when you step out into something new
and you suddenly realize what you've stepped out into and you can suddenly, it's that thing where you suddenly know what you don't know maybe if you start a new job after the first few weeks and you suddenly go, oh my gosh, reality hits and he hesitates.
But God calls us even when we are hesitating.
He's heard from God, he's taken a step out and he's come under fire.
Things have gotten hard and the enemy has started to push back and Gideon is worried that maybe he made the wrong decision.
Maybe he hasn't heard from God
Because if he's wrong, the consequences will be dire.
And so he asks for a sign in the morning dew that the fleece be wet and the ground be dry and God obliges, wakes up and the fleece is wet.
But for Gideon, there is still this possibility that it could be a coincidence.
It could just be chance.
Because the hot ground is going to absorb moisture more quickly than the fleece.
So it would kind of make sense.
If you put a fleece on the ground on a dewy day, the ground might be dry and the fleece might be wet.
So he asks God for confirmation for a second sign.
Let the fleece be dry and the ground be wet.
And the signs and the wonders are amazing in this story.
But what I love is God's patience with Gideon and this.
He doesn't scold him for not having enough faith.
He's patient with him and he's gracious enough to confirm that this risky path is the path that he wants him to walk.
Because stepping into the story doesn't mean that we won't ever waver.
Hopefully, it won't be anything as serious as someone trying to kill you, but there are always consequences for stepping in.
Because the enemy wants to keep us contained and he will use any tactic he can.
And as soon as we step out, we're going to potentially be in the firing line.
Gideon's wisdom here is to make sure that God really said.
And I think there's two sides to this point.
The first one is that God understands our doubts and is patient when we think we've heard from him.
When it's that God, I really, I really need you to confirm this for me.
And he will because he wants to use us, he wants to partner with us.
But it's also a wise warning that says that it's easy to hear amazing stories of people doing amazing testimonies and incredible, crazy things for God and sometimes to get bit carried away.
Because God isn't going to rush ahead of us if we're hesitating, but also we shouldn't rush ahead of him.
Because none of us hears perfectly from God.
It's really important that we step into the story that he wants us to step into because that is where our confidence and our security is.
Not the story that we think sounds great or the story that we'd like to step into.
Because God calls us even when we are hesitating.
And that's where we're going to leave it with Gideon.
But many of you will know the story that comes after.
He amasses a vast army which God whistles down to just 300 men.
so that no one could say that it wasn't God who gives them the victory.
And they were, they were victorious.
And for 40 years Gideon rules the people of Israel and there's peace.
But eventually Gideon dies.
And the people of Israel go right back to doing what they were doing.
And the cycle that they are stuck in continues.
And each judge, each judge that comes after Gideon, God uses them
But when you read the book of Judges, there are some pretty awful people, Samson, Jepthor, they kind of get worse as the book goes on.
And it's encouraging to know that God uses these people, these real people, with significant flaws to work through that, because he means that he can use me as well.
But the flaws and the weaknesses and the doubts of the judges and the people, they eventually come back to bite them.
God uses them, but their flaws eventually come back to them.
And at the end of his life Gideon sets up an idol with all the gold that he's collected from the victory.
And he sets this idol to worship and it is bigger and grander than the ones that he's torn down at the beginning of his story right when God called him.
And the Bible says it's a snare for him and his family and the few people fall back into sin and the cycle continues.
So why can we have any confidence when we step in?
How do we know that when we step in
that when we make a difference, that we offer what we have, that we're writing part of God's story rather than just the same cycle over and over and over again.
And this is where I love judges as a book that it points to Jesus.
Because we don't have a flawed judge that we follow.
We don't even have a flawed king.
We have a perfect king in Jesus.
who Gideon, who Samson, who Deborah, who David, all of the others, they point to this perfect thing that will come.
And it brings me back round as we finish to my point at the beginning.
As Corinthians 2, 12 says, my grace is sufficient for you.
My power is made perfect in weakness.
Therefore, I will boast all the more gladly about my weaknesses so that Christ's power, Christ's power may rest on me.
Jesus' power,
Jesus grace, sorry, that's what breaks the cycle.
Rather than rely on flawed earthly leaders and earthly kings, we have access to an all-powerful heavenly king and his Holy Spirit is in each one of us if we accept it.
But rather than come back to bite me where I step in, where he calls me in my weaknesses, it's all better because Jesus power is made perfect, made perfect
in my weaknesses and he uses them for his glory.
That's the kind of story I want to step into church.
And that's the kind of story I want to be part of, this topsy-turvy kingdom story where nobody is pushed out because they feel like they can't do it.
Because if there's one thing I can say with absolute confidence is that every single person in this room has weaknesses that I am sure of, that's great.
Because if we all have weaknesses that means we can all be used.
Jesus can and will use those weaknesses for our glory if we let him.
So let's not disqualify ourselves.
Let's not think that stepping into the stories for somebody else, somebody better, somebody braver, somebody smarter, somebody who's not hiding, somebody who knows more.
Let's not miss what God wants to do in our lives.
For his power is made perfect in our weakness and therefore we
will boast all the more gladly about our weaknesses that Christ's power may rest on us.
Could I invite you to stand with me, Church?
Lord Jesus, I thank you that you have a story that you are writing in and through each one of us.
Thank you that you want and you call each one of us to step into that story with you.
That our weaknesses are not things that are disqualified us, they are things that you will use for your glory.
So Lord, I pray a courage that comes from knowing you over every person here today.
Lord, where we hear Holy Spirit nudging from you, where it calls on us to do things that maybe we don't think we're good at, maybe we don't have it all together, maybe we are.
afraid of looking silly or getting it wrong.
God, I thank you that you give us the chance to partner with you in building the story of Jesus.
I pray that we would hear your Holy Spirit call, Lord, that you are writing a story in each one of us through the gifts that you've given us and through the weaknesses that you want to use in us.
Lord, as we go from this place, help us to hear that call and to step into those things in Jesus' name.
Amen.
Thanks, Josh.